Hello and welcome back to the course on statistics so continuous versus discrete.
Let's get started.
So here we've got a data set of values so these are customers of an imaginary bank.
They have good customer I.D. they've got Name Surname gender age age group height region obfuscation
tenure and months how long they've been with the bank balance and spend and spend on groceries.
So here we're just going to quickly introduce the concept of continuous and discrete.
It's going to be important for us when we come to talk about distributions generally speaking what is
the difference between continues and discrete.
Verelst we're talking about continuous discrete variables or columns and data in a dataset or database.
So continuous our columns that can take any value in between a certain range or even filtering just
can take any value out and your restrictions and your real value or even any fractional value that also
cause it continues because real values contain rational and irrational numbers numbers and therefore
fractions will also Conor's continue.
So let's have a look in more detail for example discrete.
Let's talk about region.
So here you've got Scotland Northern Ireland Wales.
These are represented by and England of course polities Scotland Northern Ireland wells and these are
regions of the U.K. and they're represented by words.
So there the names of the these are separate countries inside the UK so the names of each of these regions.
Well we could change these two numbers or could make it 1 2 3 4 or 0 1 2 3 or something like that to
represent that.
And that would be a a discrete variable.
And this is already a discrete variable just represented by words what that means is that they are CRN
values that it can take.
It can only take one of four values you cannot take anything between and of course that is the case
because it's a categorical variable that only has categories.
But let's have a look at something else just to see the differences.
So you start painting the picture.
Let's look at it take a look at balance.
So as you can see here balance is there the amount of money that they have on their bank account and
it can take pretty much any value between 0 dollars maybe even negative it can go negative.
That's like a credit card balance.
And it can go all the way up to whatever Like million 10 million probably not more than a billion although
maybe there are probably some banks have customers of a billion dollars but not more than 100 billion
dollars.
So there is kind of a limit but at the same time the amount can take any value in between.
You can see that it's rounded to the second decimal and that's just because that's how currency works.
We only have sense.
You can't have less than one cent in essence.
That's just a restriction of the underlying whatever we're dealing with the currency in this case it's
not an implicit restriction that we're putting on the data set.
We're not saying that.
OK so we only wanted to be like that.
Basically if it were up to us we would let currency to be anything it's not important to us that is
up to the second decimal we could have twelve point two five five a dollar forty eight or forty eight
seven six five four three two one.
It doesn't really matter.
Basically that's what it means when a variable is continuous that it can take.
Hypothetically could take any values between any on that certain range or you fall in your range.
Even so in this case between age two values you could always get another value whereas with for discreate
there's only a fixed set of values that you have intentionally set that the database can.
Now the data set can be taken.
A good example here is for his age group and age group you still have values 20 30 40 50 and so on.
So that's the age rounded down to the nearest 10.
So if somebody is 27 then it's run down to 20 and just puts them into an age group into a bucket like
that.
And even though this is a numeric variable in reality it's a discrete variable because you want it to
be you only want CRN certain bands you only want 10 or 10 years for like somebody who's 18 years old
so you want the 10 year old age group that 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 you want it that way and therefore
it's discreet.
On the other hand age over here age is an interesting one.
So do we treat age as continuous or discrete.
A very common question age should be It depends on your intentions.
And just as we saw with balance as we saw of age group spend on groceries that's obviously continues
but what about age.
So as you can see here it's it's also rounded to the nearest year.
But is that your intention did you want to be like that.
Is it important to you that they fall inside these.
They only take these certain values.
In that case you can treat it as discrete and you should treat as discreet.
On the other hand if age is if it doesn't matter to you just don't mind that you know that it's not
accurate up to that whatever decimal or maybe that's the way your database is structured you just asked
for the year ask for the age in years rather than months and so on.
But you want to treat as continue as is your intention.
It's not your intention for it to be in separate buckets like it then it is continuous.
It sounds like a gray area is really not.
It's up to your analysis and what you're doing and you'll see further down through this section what
implications they are offering something as Israel continues and you'll be able to decide.
But hopefully that kind of like summarizes it and makes it a bit clearer what the differences.
A great example which we don't have in this dataset because banks don't measure this information apparently.
Great example is shoe size or foot size so foot size in inches.
It could be anything if you think about it it could be from whatever number of inches is the smallest
foot to whatever number of inches the biggest foot.
But then in between there is an unlimited number of values.
So a ruler is 12 inches so let's say I don't know 8 inches.
Somebody's foot could probably be 8 inches but it could be eight point or one it could be eight point
or one.
It could be eight point one two three four seven.
And so basically this unlimited number of numbers in that range.
And that's the foot size on the shoe size on the other hand.
They're fixed.
It can be sized for the one for one and a half foot two for two and a half or three for in European
size and in Australian sizes would be like eight eight and a half nine and a half tent and a half every
time.
Every time I have to.
It's so hard.
And in America I think they have different yet again and same same with closing type of clothes.
But the point stands that foot size can be different shoe size on the other hand.
There are specific categories that it falls into.
So one is continuous foot size Dahlia's discreet shoe size.
So hopefully that's it clears it up between continuous and discrete and that's all for today.
Just go to Tauriel to reintroduce these concepts concepts refresh on them and we'll present the next
one for you then.
And until next I'm happy analyzing.